### B.  Innovation
Our proposal to study task switching in prefrontal cortex is innovative in its  computational methods, overall methodological philosophy, and topic.

Computationally, our approach to analysis of electrophysiological data is innovative, particularly in [Aim \#2](#aim2), because we seek to build statistical models for prefrontal neurons that allow for a large amount of flexibility in terms of dynamics over times and control for many of the possible influences of task factors. While this approach has been employed for other brain areas [@kelly_accounting_2010; @pillow_spatiotemporal_2008], it has not been employed for prefrontal areas –-- an area we believe could benefit from such models due to its heterogeneous selectivity [@rigotti_importance_2013]. Additionally, as a result of our ability to record from many neurons simultaneously, this approach is innovative in terms of the scale at which this technique will be applied.

Methodologically, we take a unique approach in examining a large collection of models that incorporate a range of task factors rather than simply examining each factor individually or asserting only one model. This is motivated in part by the heterogenity of function for prefrontal neurons and the multitude of theories for ACC. We are able to do this through the combination of multi-dimensional statistical models and interactive visualizations -- which allow us to navigate through the results of the models in a manageable way.

Finally, topically we are innovative because there are few electrophysiology studies that examine the effect of changing context on ACC (a notable exception is @johnston_topdown_2007) and those that do rarely have simultaneous recordings in dlPFC and ACC and are not able to compare the dynamics within and between the areas. We will be the first study to compare the effect of changing context on coherence between local populations of neurons within prefrontal cortex.
