## Research Strategy
### A.  Significance
#### Clarifying the roles of prefrontal subdivisions, particularly ACC
Current theories of prefrontal cortex attribute different functions to anatomical subdivisions [@miller_integrative_2001; @dias_dissociation_1996; @rushworth_frontal_2011]. Because these functions are thought to underlie some of our more complex and diverse behavior, research is needed to tease apart the specific contributions of prefrontal subdivisions. For example, despite the wealth of studies on ACC, there is little agreement on its function [@shenhav_expected_2013] – primarily due to the diversity of findings of its involvement in processing errors, reward, conflict and attention. This has led to a number of attempts to unify these findings under a single overarching function of cognitive demand [@shenhav_expected_2013; @holroyd_motivation_2012; @alexander_medial_2011] but the complexity of this function requires careful accounting of the numerous factors that could affect ACC. A novel focus of this proposal is understanding the contribution of ACC during task switching while acknowledging the complexity of this function. We do this through the use of multi-dimensional regression in [Aim \#2](#aim2) and interactive visualization in [Aim \#3](#aim3).

Additionally, research on prefrontal cortex has primarily focused on the differences between the subdivisions, but little is known about how they interact. Another focus of this proposal is understanding the complementary functions of prefrontal divisions through the use of multi-electrode electrophysiology. Because our recordings are simultaneous in ACC and dlPFC, we can investigate how the activity of one prefrontal area relates to the activity of another without the uncertainties associated with between study comparisons. We relate activity from ACC and dlPFC in Aims \#1 and \#2.

#### Understanding the relationship of different spatial scales in the brain
Another contribution of our project is its focus on the interaction of different spatial scales in the brain. Our data analysis ([Aim \#2](#aim2)) and interactive visualization tools ([Aim \#3](#aim3)) are targeted at relating how individual neurons are affected by changes at the circuit level and how these changes differ by prefrontal subdivision. This is important because we do not understand how complexity on the cellular level impacts circuit level representations and how this relates to anatomical subdivisions. Understanding the information gained and lost at different levels of spatial organization can help inform future studies in terms of choice of recording technique, because different recordings techniques (e.g. fMRI, ECoG, Electrophysiology, and EEG) have different spatial and temporal resolutions.

#### Enabling rapid analysis of multi-dimensional datasets through interactive visualizations
Electrophysiology datasets are becoming richer and more complex as data is collected on multiple scales, dataset sizes increase, and more sophisticated questions are asked of the data. Visualization is an essential tool for understanding these datasets at all stages of analysis, but the current practice of producing static visualizations is limited in its ability to reflect this richness and complexity.

Complex analyses and hypotheses necessitate an increase in the number of static visualizations or further summarization of the data (dimensionality reduction) to deal with the number of dimensions --- often both. For example, a common visualization of spiking data from a neuron would be a raster plot and/or a histogram. These are typically visualized with respect to a particular experimental stimulus or event (e.g. a saccade); each event requiring a new visualization. To investigate the firing rate of 1000 neurons in multiple conditions implies visualizations for each neuron or aggregation in some form (e.g summarization by brain area) once the visualization becomes too ineffective to support perceptual comparison. Because analysis is an iterative process, a typical analysis might require hundreds of visualizations as different sets of experimental conditions are examined or as more data is added.

A large number of static visualizations results in more researcher time spent switching between visualizations, which can not only extend the time to analyze the data, but also has a meaningful impact on our ability to explore and understand the data. For example, @liu_effects_2014 found that even a 500 millisecond delay between visualizations could reduce the amount of the dataset explored and affect the number of hypotheses and observations formed. Similarly, @brutlag_speed_2009 found that users performed fewer web searches if there was as little as a 200 millisecond delay in the return of search results.

Summarization, while often necessary, can obscure complexity and variability in the data --- as in the well-known case of Anscombe's dataset [@anscombe_graphs_1973]. It does not obviate the need to understand and check statistical assumptions. This can be a problem with large datasets, where going back and forth between raw data and summaries is difficult because of the amount of data. Moreover, multi-dimensional summaries require careful checking and understanding of assumptions as more structure in the data is assumed [@gelman_exploratory_2004] and overfitting --- fitting to more parameters than the data can support, resulting in lack of generalizability of results --- becomes a concern. Finally, the sophisticated computational algorithms used to compute the summaries can result in errors, and visualizations play an important role in catching such errors.

[Aim \#3](#aim3) of this proposal is significant because interactive visualizations --- visualizations where the viewer can manipulate the state of the visualization --- allow us to navigate between alternate views with minimal delay and make comparisons between complex representations. We can leverage this and the computational ease of fitting multi-dimensional models to explore a large collection of models for ACC and dlPFC neurons, instead of restricting ourselves to single task factor models or even a single model that considers multiple task factors. This is important to our work --- because of the disagreement about the role of ACC and the number of possible task factors --- and to future electrophysiology studies --- as the datasets become richer and more complex.
