### Specific [Aim \#1](#aim1): To identify circuit level coordination within and between ACC and dlPFC. {#aim1}
#### The role of prefrontal rhythms and coherence in circuit-level communication
Neurons tend to fluctuate rhythmically in excitation – both through intrinsic currents at the cellular level and as groups [@ainsworth_rates_2012]. This rhythmicity has been observed throughout the brain and changes with cognitive, sensory and motor state [@buschman_topdown_2007; @lakatos_neuronal_2007; @pesaran_free_2008]. A benefit of rhythmic excitation is when multiple excitatory inputs arrive at nearly the same time to a target neuron, the effect on the targeted neuron is greater than a simple addition of the inputs [@nettleton_linear_2000; @salinas_impact_2000].

Neuronal rhythms also influence the temporal effectiveness of inputs to a group of neurons. If inputs arrive at peak times of group excitability, there is an increased chance of neurons in the group firing. Conversely, if the inputs arrive when the group is less excitable, either due to inhibition from interneurons or refractory currents, there is less chance of neurons in the group firing [@burchell_gamma_1998].

These observations have led to the suggestion that stable phase relationships (measured by coherence) between groups of neurons enable selective communication between the groups -- the so-called *Communication through Coherence* hypothesis [@fries_mechanism_2005]. If two groups of neurons are coherent at the same frequency and the conduction delays between the groups are sufficiently short, the groups can mutually excite each other at times of peak excitability, allowing effective communication between the groups. If the groups are not coherent, their oscillations are not sufficiently narrowband, or the conduction delays are long enough to result in anti-phase coherence, then signals between the groups are less effective and communication is diminished.

An important feature of phase-coherence is that it enables rapid and flexible routing of information between groups of neurons, allowing them to be selected and de-selected in a task-dependent manner [@akam_oscillations_2010; @akam_efficient_2012]. Moreover, this selection of neuronal groups does not strictly depend on the underlying anatomical connectivity, which can only change on a much slower timescale. This makes phase-coherence an ideal mechanism for the context-dependent linking of neurons. Context switches and shifts of attention can occur in hundreds of milliseconds, so the mechanism that supports them must also be able to change on this timescale [@singer_cortical_2013].

Supporting this, several studies have found evidence for increased coherence between prefrontal cortex and distant brain areas during tasks that require visual attention. For example, @buschman_topdown_2007 found beta (22-34 Hz) coherence was stronger between parietal and prefrontal cortex of monkeys when the task required top-down attention. Similarly, @gregoriou_highfrequency_2009 found spike-field coherence between LFPs in prefrontal cortex and neurons in visual cortex was enhanced when attending to a stimulus in their shared receptive field. Attentionally-enhanced coherence between prefrontal cortex and other areas also appears to be wide-spread among subdivisions of prefrontal cortex --- electrodes placed in multiple subdivisions of prefrontal cortex were coherent in a content-specific manner with electrodes in the parietal lobe during a visual working memory task [@salazar_contentspecific_2012].

So, based on evidence that coherence coordinates prefrontal cortex subdivisions with distant brain areas during attention and changes on the appropriate timescale, we hypothesize in this study that coherence also coordinates within and between prefrontal subdivisions in a  context-dependent manner. This coordination may be important for two reasons: first, subdivisions of prefrontal cortex have different functional roles, but those roles seem to depend on context, so coherence may be a way for prefrontal subdivisions to flexibly communicate based on context; second, even within prefrontal subdivisions, neurons tend to be sensitive to multiple aspects of a task, so coherence may be a way to dynamically select context-appropriate neurons from a greater, heterogeneous population.

#### Comparisons and Outcomes
Local field potentials (LFPs) reflect the local activity of groups of neurons. Therefore, we will compute the coherence between pairs of simultaneously recorded LFPs to measure communication between groups of neurons.

To measure if communication is context-dependent, we will compute the difference in coherence between rules (Color Rule – Orientation Rule). In previous work [@buschman_synchronous_2012], we successfully identified context-dependent differences in coherence in the beta band (19-40 Hz) between electrodes in the dlPFC (see @fig:figure2). Here we would like to determine if this is true for electrodes within ACC and between ACC and dlPFC.

Additionally, to assess if these context-dependent differences change with the attention factors, we will compare the difference between rules in the least attention-demanding situations (see levels in [@tbl:table1] marked baseline) to the difference between rules in the most attention demanding. For example, for the factor *Congruency*, we will compare the difference in coherence between rules in the congruent condition to the difference in coherence between rules in the incongruent condition.

We expect in all of these situations that the amount of context-dependent coherence should increase for the preferred context (the rule for which the coherence is greater overall) in more attentionally-demanding conditions.

#### Potential Pitfalls and Alternative Approaches
Coherence is only one mechanism by which groups of neurons might communicate – it is possible that not all areas communicate via the frequency domain [@friston_labile_2000]. In particular, rhythms have to be sufficiently narrowband for coherence to be an effective mechanism of communication and the influence of ACC on dlPFC may be more modulatory than driving [@medalla_anterior_2010]. Therefore, transient signals in the time domain may matter more in their communication. As part of [Aim \#2](#aim2), we examine how population firing in ACC and dlPFC affect the firing rate of individual neurons. This analysis is in the time domain and could capture communication between the areas that is not frequency-dependent.

![Rule-Selective Synchrony in PFC (A) Synchrony between electrodes within prefrontal cortex differs for rules. Synchrony is quantified by the coherence in simultaneously recorded local field potentials during each rule. The difference in synchrony (rectified to capture synchrony differences that prefer either rule) was compared to a trial-shuffled null distribution, resulting in a Z score of observed rule difference (color axis). Absolute synchrony differences are shown across time relative to stimulus onset (x axis) and frequency (y axis). Two time-frequency regions of interest (ROIs) are seen—an ‘‘alpha,’’ 6–16 Hz, prestimulus ROI (solid outline) and a ‘‘beta,’’ 19–40 Hz, peristimulus ROI (dashed outline). (B) Percentage of recorded pairs of electrodes with a significant rule preference during the ‘‘alpha’’ and ‘‘beta’’ time-frequency regions of interest (solid/ dashed outlines in A). Error bars indicate 95% confidence interval. Significantly more electrode pairs prefer color within the alpha ROI and orientation within the beta ROI.](figures/Figure2.png){#fig:figure2}
